Now we could use the template driven approach again to handle this forum.
But I also want to show that reactive this approach which allows us to create our forum programmatically
in typescript and then connect it to our template here.
So for that I'll go to a line typescript file.
But first of all we need to an able that reactive forms approach and hence we need to go to the module
that includes our new offers page which is the new offers page module.
And there we can remove the forms module from the Anglo forums and instead import D reactive forms module
and add this to our imports here.
And this unlocks all the features we need in the new offer page to use the reactive forms approach.
Now in there we can create form property which will be of type form group and form group needs to be
imported from at Anglo forms.
Now this form here should be created in enjoin in it.
So we'll set this form equal to new form group.
That is how you create a new form programmatically in angular now form group takes a javascript object
where we configure it and most importantly where we configure its controls.
So here we assign simple key value pairs where the key is the name of a control and the value is the
configuration of that control.
And it will need a title control.
We'll need a description control.
We'll need a price control.
We'll need a date from control and a date to control.
Later we'll also add controls for a picked location and a picked image but we'll add these features
later.
So for now we'll stick to these simple fields.
Now each of these fields needs a value of course and the value is a new form control.
Now form control also needs to be imported from at Anglo forms.
And in case you're already used to working with Angola forums and reactive forms approach of course
you could use the form builder here as well.
But I like this very clear approach so form control takes a default value which is null because I don't
want to fill this title with any default value and then an object where we can configure it at this
object here for example allows us to set when this form control should update.
So should it update on change which is every keystroke or when the whole form is submitted or what I
want to choose here when the form input blurs.
So when it loses focus we can also set up validators here validators should be an array of validators.
And there you can access validators which is an object imported from at Angola forums.
And that's simply groups all the built in validators angular ships with and there for example I'll use
these required validator.
So now just make sure that the title will be required.
You could of course also access validator as Min length or anything like that.
And again the angler documentation is the place to go to learn all about that.
So here for the description I'll also set up a form control with no default value here I also want to
update on losing focus and I'll add my validators array where I access validators required and of course
here you could also set a min length or what I'll do here at the max length validator.
This now has to be executed like a function and there we pass in the maximum length we want to allow
and I want to allow no more than let's say 180 characters now for the price here we create another new
form control default value is no and in the object where we configure that control ise it update on
to blur and I then add my validators where I want you have the required validator but I also want to
make sure that we have to at least enter a price of one so that zero or anything below 1 or a negative
price is not allowed.
And that is possible with validators Min not Min length but just Min.
And then you enter your minimal number like 1 and now if you would enter a zero or zero that 5 or minus
1 or minus 1000 into this input field it would not be treated as valid now what about data from and
to.
Well these are all the new form controls which don't start with a default value.
I want to update when we lose focus and here my validators they're all just required.
So it must not be empty.
And as I mentioned the good thing about ionic is that these days time controls are really just usable
as regular form inputs.
That is pretty nice and makes working with them particularly easy.
So here I create another new form control starting value is now an update on blur and my validator is
here.
There I got validators required so that is the forum with which I want to work for now.
The next step will be to synchronize this form object to our H2 Mal code.